README.markdown, before:

# Cream Rails 3 sample app

This app will be the template for the design of the Cream *config* generator.

## Status: Sept. 25, 2010

The gems which this project rely on have all been updated and released. So it should work!

## Steps 

These are the steps to be taken to get a Cream enabled app up and running with Mongo Mapper. 
I hope my coming generator will minimize the amount of manual steps a great deal! 

*You are most welcome to join in the effort ;)*

## Setup Rails 3 for Mongo DB

Either: Create new app

<code>rails my_app --skip-activerecord</code>

Or in existing app, edit 'config/application.rb'
<pre>
  # require 'rails/all'  

  require "action_controller/railtie"
  require "action_mailer/railtie"
  require "active_resource/railtie"
  require "rails/test_unit/railtie"  
</pre>

## Configure gemfile
   
in *Gemfile* insert:

<pre>
  gem 'cream',        '~> 0.5.5' 
  gem 'devise',       '~> 1.2.0' 

  # use mongo mapper version of devise
  gem 'mm-devise',    '~> 1.1.3'

  # gem "mongo_mapper"

  # use mongo mapper version of roles
  gem 'roles_mongo_mapper',    '~> 0.1.2'
  
</pre>

### Install devise 

<code>rails g devise:install</code>

Add to application.rb             
<code>config.action_mailer.default_url_options = { :host => 'localhost:3000' }</code>

If no Welcome controller, create one with an 'index' view.
<pre>
  get :to => "welcome#index"
  root :to => "welcome#index"  
</pre>

Generate Welcome controller with index action and index view

<code>rails g controller Welcome index</code>

In 'app/views/layouts/application.html.erb'

Insert after opening :body element
<pre>
  <p class="notice"><%= notice %></p>
  <p class="alert"><%= alert %></p>  
</pre>

Create Devise views for customizing Session forms and such (optional):

<code>rails g devise:views</code>

Edit any of the view files (optional)

### Create devise user

Note ORM argument optional as it will use the correct ORM if configured correctly in the devise initializer!

Inside 'config/initializers/devise.rb' change to:
<code>require 'devise/orm/mongo_mapper'</code>  

Create devise User for Mongo Mapper
<code>rails g mongo_mapper:devise User</code>

## Permits

Configure default permits 

<code>rails g permits</code>

Configure Rails to autoload permits files

Inside config/application.rb
<code>config.autoload_paths += %W(#{Rails.root}/app/permits)</code>    

## Configure and generate roles

Add :admin_flag role strategy to User model

<code>rails g mongo_mapper:roles User --strategy admin_flag</code> 

<code>rails s</code>

*Module RoleStrategy::MongoMapper::RoleString has not been registered*

Add to user at the top:
<pre>
  use_roles_strategy :admin_flag
</pre>

Note: Should this be added (as an option?) to the Roles generator?

## Add Devise protection

In Welcome controller:

<code>before_filter :authenticate_user!</code> 

## Add Default user (optional)

Edit 'db/seeds.rb'
<pre>
  User.delete_all
  user = User.create(:email => 'kmandrup@gmail.com', :password => '123456', :password_confirmation => '123456')  
</pre>

Create 'lib/tasks/db.rake'
<pre>
  namespace :db do
    task :seed => :environment do
      load "#{Rails.root}/db/seeds.rb"
    end
  end  
</pre> 

<code>rake db:seed</code>     

## Test application

Start web server
<code>rails s</code>

In browser go to: localhost:3000/welcome/index

This should redirect to the Devise 'Sign up' form :) 

## Scaffold some app code

Now off to test the Cream functionality

Scaffold a Blog model using the mongo_mapper:model generator from *rails3-generators* (included by *mm-devise*)
A Blog consists of Posts, with an :index action listing all blog Posts, and :show to show an individual blog Post 
<code>rails g scaffold Post title:string body:string --orm mongo_mapper</code>

Inside 'app/views/posts/index.erb.html':
<pre>
  <%= show_link post %>
  <%= edit_link post %>
  <%= delete_link post %>
</pre>

Now see if the permissions work

Commit message:

major update and notes in README on latest cream demo app

README.markdown, after:

# Cream Rails 3 sample app

This app will be the template for the design of the Cream *config* generator.

## Status: Dec 1, 2010

Cream, CanCan-Permits and some of the other gems have since minor or major upgraded since this app was created. 
Please take a look at [cream-app](http://github.com/kristianmandrup/cream-app), the new Demo app for the latest version of Cream. 

Most of the manual steps below are no longer necessary as the generators in the latest Cream automatically configures most if not all of this.

## Steps 

These are the steps to be taken to get a Cream enabled app up and running with Mongo Mapper. 
I hope my coming generator will minimize the amount of manual steps a great deal! 

*You are most welcome to join in the effort ;)*

## Setup Rails 3 for Mongo DB

Either: Create new app

<code>rails my_app --skip-activerecord</code>

Or in existing app, edit 'config/application.rb'
<pre>
  # require 'rails/all'  

  require "action_controller/railtie"
  require "action_mailer/railtie"
  require "active_resource/railtie"
  require "rails/test_unit/railtie"  
</pre>

It should also be possible to setup using the *mongoid:configure* generator that comes with mongoid.

## Configure gemfile
   
in *Gemfile* insert:

<pre>
  gem 'cream',        '~> 0.6.2' 
  gem 'devise',       '~> 1.2.0' 

  # use mongo mapper version of devise
  gem 'mm-devise',    '~> 1.1.6'

  # gem "mongo_mapper"

  # use mongo mapper version of roles
  gem 'roles_mongo_mapper',    '~> 0.1.3'
  
</pre>

### Install devise 

<code>rails g devise:install</code>

Add to application.rb             
<code>config.action_mailer.default_url_options = { :host => 'localhost:3000' }</code>

If no Welcome controller, create one with an 'index' view.
<pre>
  get :to => "welcome#index"
  root :to => "welcome#index"  
</pre>

Generate Welcome controller with index action and index view

<code>rails g controller Welcome index</code>

In 'app/views/layouts/application.html.erb'

Insert after opening :body element
<pre>
  <p class="notice"><%= notice %></p>
  <p class="alert"><%= alert %></p>  
</pre>

Create Devise views for customizing Session forms and such (optional):

<code>rails g devise:views</code>

Edit any of the view files (optional)

### Create devise user

Note ORM argument optional as it will use the correct ORM if configured correctly in the devise initializer!

Inside 'config/initializers/devise.rb' change to:
<code>require 'devise/orm/mongo_mapper'</code>  

Create devise User for Mongo Mapper
<code>rails g mongo_mapper:devise User</code>

## Permits

Configure default permits 

<code>rails g permits</code>

Configure Rails to autoload permits files

Inside config/application.rb
<code>config.autoload_paths += %W(#{Rails.root}/app/permits)</code>    

## Configure and generate roles

Add :admin_flag role strategy to User model

<code>rails g mongo_mapper:roles User --strategy admin_flag</code> 

<code>rails s</code>

*Module RoleStrategy::MongoMapper::RoleString has not been registered*

Add to user at the top:
<pre>
  use_roles_strategy :admin_flag
</pre>

Note: Should this be added (as an option?) to the Roles generator?

## Add Devise protection

In Welcome controller:

<code>before_filter :authenticate_user!</code> 

## Add Default user (optional)

Edit 'db/seeds.rb'
<pre>
  User.delete_all
  user = User.create(:email => 'kmandrup@gmail.com', :password => '123456', :password_confirmation => '123456')  
</pre>

Create 'lib/tasks/db.rake'
<pre>
  namespace :db do
    task :seed => :environment do
      load "#{Rails.root}/db/seeds.rb"
    end
  end  
</pre> 

<code>rake db:seed</code>     

## Test application

Start web server
<code>rails s</code>

In browser go to: localhost:3000/welcome/index

This should redirect to the Devise 'Sign up' form :) 

## Scaffold some app code

Now off to test the Cream functionality

Scaffold a Blog model using the mongo_mapper:model generator from *rails3-generators* (included by *mm-devise*)
A Blog consists of Posts, with an :index action listing all blog Posts, and :show to show an individual blog Post 
<code>rails g scaffold Post title:string body:string --orm mongo_mapper</code>

Inside 'app/views/posts/index.erb.html':
<pre>
  <%= show_link post %>
  <%= edit_link post %>
  <%= delete_link post %>
</pre>

Now see if the permissions work
